---
title: "Aspect-based Sentiment Detection using Deep Neural Networks and Transfer Learning"
collection: projects
permalink: /projects/2019-03-01-absa
type: "Master Thesis"
venue: "Technical University of Munich"
date: 15-03-2019
location: "Munich, Germany"
---

A novel approach to jointly detect aspect and the corresponding sentiment in a given sentence using DNN and transfer learning.

In this thesis, we propose a new neural network architecture for aspect-based sentiment
analysis (ABSA). Instead of a pipeline approach where an aspect is first detected and
then the corresponding sentiment polarities are classified, we use a joint formulation
which is similar to the approach used by Schmitt et al. (2018). Furthermore, we
also propose an input data transformation technique that provides some interesting
advantages to our model. It helps in addressing problems that arise due to the huge
number of output classes and it also provides additional capabilities that help our
model to apply transfer learning approaches such as Progressive Neural Networks(PNN).

We conducted a thorough study of different ways in which a task such as sentiment
analysis or ABSA can be formulated using various sequential modeling techniques such
as HMM, CNN, RNN. We performed experiments with different variants of our model
on a variety of datasets such as - SemEval-2016 Restaurant, SemEval-2016 Laptops,
Organic food, GermEval-2017 Deutsche Bahn. We also experimented with different
word embeddings such as GloVe, fastText, ELMo.

We were able to show that transfer learning approaches consistently gives a boost of
about 1 or 2 F1 points across all the four datasets. With our experiments especially
with GermEval-2017 data, we were able to show that our model performed better than
the LSTM variant of the current state of the art approach from Schmitt et al. (2018).
However, their CNN variant performed better than our best LSTM based model. To
be the best of our knowledge, we are the first ones to present practical results on
SemEval-2016 restaurant and laptop dataset for aspect-based sentiment analysis using
a joint approach, therefore setting a baseline for future research.

[For more details read this report](https://dugarsumit.github.io/files/thesis_report.pdf)
